---
title: "Exploring the Impact of Artificial Intelligence on Personalized Nutrition – A Systematic Literature Review"
language: "de"
published: true
tags: ["FH Aachen", "Thesis"]
---

## Abstract

With the rapid evolvement of the field of nutrition science, personalized
nutrition has become a very promising strategy for managing the complexity of
unique and individual dietary requirements. This systematic literature review
examines the significant implications of integrating artificial intelligence
into the promising field of personalized nutrition. The primary objective of
this review is to assess how AI, encompassing a spectrum of technologies, can
revolutionize the capacity to customize and personalize diet-related
recommendations and interventions.

This review critically evaluates a diverse range of studies that highlight AI's
role in enhancing personalized dietary recommendations, predicting health
outcomes, including, weight loss, cardiovascular health, and other conditions
based on personalized nutrition. The synthesis of empirical evidence highlights
AI's predictive capabilities in forecasting health-related parameters, thus
enabling early disease detection and personalized interventions.

Furthermore, the integration of AI in nutrient analysis and tracking offers
insights into dietary behaviours and their influence on health. Ethical
considerations, data privacy, and other challenges are also discussed as
integral aspects of AI-driven personalized nutrition.

This review establishes the importance of interdisciplinary collaboration
between nutritionists, data scientists, healthcare providers, and
technologists. It advocates the necessity for clear regulatory frameworks in
the dynamic landscape of AI applications in healthcare, particularly
personalized nutrition.

The findings underscore that AI is positioned to be a pivotal tool in
optimizing personalized nutrition, thus enhancing, and addressing the various
factors influencing individual well-being. This systematic exploration
highlights AI's transformative role in the evolving field of personalized
nutrition.

## Volltext

Verfügbar auf Anfrage.
